Add roadmap 2022 Q1 (#162)
meilisearch/integration-guides: roadmap/2022.md

- Statisfy the PHP community by creating our own Laravel integration with the most requested features (based on the [Laravel/Scout](https://github.com/laravel/scout) integration feedbacks)
- Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021.
- Provide complete and easy-to-maintain documentation for each SDK

Human resources
- New manager welcoming
- Recruitment of new developers

## Q1

Database:
- [ ] Finish Firebase integration
- [ ] Write the "Firebase + MeiliSearch" article

Strapi:
- [ ] Make Strapi plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace. Will depend on the Strapi's docs.
- [ ] (?) Write article "how to make your plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace"
- [ ] Participate to the Strapi conference in March

Back-end web framework:
- [ ] Start Laravel integration containing the missing features in [Laravel/Scout](https://github.com/laravel/scout)

Front-end
- [ ] Fix the pagination issues in `instant-meilisearch`
- [ ] First release of Gatsby
- [ ] (?) Write the "Gatsby + MeiliSearch" article, depending on the @mdubus availability

> Cleam the technical debt:

Author: ```suggestion
Clean the technical debt:
```

# Roadmap 2022

This is the roadmap planned by the Integration team at MeiliSearch for the year 2022.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2022: the Main Lines

#### Objectives

- Better know our users and our community to ease our decision making
  - set the analytics on every integration
  - Extract information from them to prioritize our tasks
- Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more "good first issues".

> - Work with the @meilisearch/devrel-team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to allow the integration team developers to focus on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.

Reviewer: I think my comment got overwritten. We're recruiting a Support engineer that could do this

Author: No it's not overwritten, it's right there :)
https://github.com/meilisearch/integration-guides/pull/162#discussion_r787036248

- Work with the @meilisearch/docs-team to provide complete and easy-to-maintain documentation for each SDK
- Be more organized regarding our rhythm of working
    - during the pre-release period: improve the process and define steps for each sprint
    - during the implementation period: find the right balance between maintainance and new content addition.

> - Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021.

Author: ```suggestion
- Road to v1! In 2022, MeiliSearch is starting the implementation and the stabilization of the API regarding the release of the first stable version of MeiliSearch (v1.0.0). The integration team must start to think about it and adapt their integrations in this v1 objective. For example, the stabilization of the most popular integrations will be necessary.
- Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021. 
```

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2022: the Main Lines

#### Projects

- Better know our users and our community to ease our decision making
  - set the analytics on every integration
  - extract information from then to prioritize our tasks
- Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more good first issues.
- Work with the devrel team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to protect the developers of the integration team and make them focusing on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.
- Work with the documentation team to provide complete and easy-to-maintain documentation for each SDK
- Be more organized regarding our rhythm of working
    - during the pre-release period: improve the process and define steps for each sprint
    - during the implementation period: find the right balance between maintainance and new content addition.
- Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021.

> #### Human resources

Author: ```suggestion
#### Human resources

```

# Roadmap 2022

This is the roadmap planned by the Integration team at MeiliSearch for the year 2022.

Nothing is definitive: the roadmap can be adapted depending on the need of the users and the company.

## 2022: the Main Lines

> #### Projects

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#### Objectives
```

It looks more like objectives, doesn't it?

Reviewer 2: Today we have around 350 contributors (200+ in 2021). Can it be a quantitative objective to at least double it?

Author: Is this number the total of contributors for the integration team?
Do you think the number of contributors is the best metrics to measure if succeeded to work with the community?
But, yes, adding metrics could be nice :)

Reviewer 2: I think it could be discussed in a second time by also including @ferdi05 in the discussion. But when the @meilisearch/devrel-team is working on raising awareness (Stars/Visitors) and growing the community (Community Members / Slack Members). The devrel team has a huge impact on the number of contributors and contributions. The problem is that it's not only a @meilisearch/integration-team work. It's just that when I read the objectives/projects, I feel like there are several that go in that direction.

Author: So, should I integrate metrics now, or wait for a discussion before integrating them? :)
In any case, @brunoocasali and I are completely ok with starting using metrics! That would definitely help us understand if we are going in the right direction or not

Reviewer: Growing the number of contributors is mostly the @meilisearch/devrel-team responsibility ([it's in our KPIs](https://github.com/meilisearch/devrel/issues/293)), but it benefits from the work done by the Core and Integration teams.
I won't advise making it an objective here as the @meilisearch/integration-team may have a little impact on this number and should not be evaluated accordingly.

Reviewer 2: I'm ok with @ferdi05 :). Keep it like it is.

> - Better know our users and our community to ease our decision making

Reviewer: with the help of a PM?

Author: Nope, by doing both line below:
- set the analytics on every integration
- Extract information from them to prioritize our tasks

  - set the analytics on every integration

>   - extract information from then to prioritize our tasks

Reviewer 3: from them?

```suggestion
  - Extract information from them to prioritize our tasks
```

> - Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more good first issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more "good first issues".
```

> - Keep working with the community, improve our way of working with the contributors by creating clearer issues, and by providing more and more "good first issues".

Reviewer: would be happy to discuss how to track this

> - Work with the devrel team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to allow the integration team developers to focus on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.

Reviewer: Indeed. We're currently recruiting a Support Engineer that will have this role too

> - Work with the devrel team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to protect the developers of the integration team and make them focusing on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.

Reviewer 2: I'm just asking myself whether we could write @meilisearch/devrel-team on the markdown to refer to the devrel team. Will this change anything in the preview that Github does?

Author: It will only display `@meilisearch/devrel-team ` instead of `devrel team` :)
I can do it if you prefer

Reviewer 2: Could be cool, WDYT?

> - Work with the devrel team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to protect the developers of the integration team and make them focusing on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.

Reviewer 3: Maybe "protect" doesn’t sound like you want to!

```suggestion
- Work with the devrel team to have help for the support for answering issues. The goal is to allow the integration team developers to focus on the PR reviews and their coding tasks, rather than doing support.
```

- Work with the documentation team to provide complete and easy-to-maintain documentation for each SDK
- Be more organized regarding our rhythm of working
    - during the pre-release period: improve the process and define steps for each sprint
    - during the implementation period: find the right balance between maintainance and new content addition.
- Release our first database integrations since we don't provide any in 2021.

#### Human resources

- New manager welcoming
- Recruitment of new developers

## Q1

Database:
- [ ] Finish Firebase integration
- [ ] Write the "Firebase + MeiliSearch" article

Strapi:
- [ ] Make Strapi plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace. Will depend on the Strapi's docs.
- [ ] (?) Write article "how to make your plugin compatible with the new Strapi MarketPlace"
- [ ] Participate to the Strapi conference in March

Back-end web framework:
- [ ] Start Laravel integration containing the missing features in [Laravel/Scout](https://github.com/laravel/scout)

Front-end
- [ ] Fix the pagination issues in `instant-meilisearch`
- [ ] First release of Gatsby

> - [ ] (?) Write the "Gatsby + MeiliSearch" article, depending on the @mdubus availability

Reviewer: sorry I commented this in the 2021 file, @shivaylamba is on it

Author: I've already removed it :) thanks!

Clean the technical debt:
- [ ] Start cleaning the Java SDK that contains a "double" implementation

Misc:
- [ ] Implement analytics in SDKs
- [ ] Implement analytics in every repository
- Changes regarding the MeiliSearch releases
  - [ ] Finish changes regarding the new task API
  - [ ] Finish changes regarding the API keys
  - [ ] Finish changes regarding the new index routes
  - [ ] Add the tenant tokens methods

>   - ...

Reviewer 2: What is this? Is it a TBD?

Author: If other changes are coming that we did not plan. Would you rather TBD?

Reviewer 2: I think you can remove the line and just assume that this document is not set in stone.
